[Music]
Shh the movie is about to start 10 facts
about movie theatres you were not
supposed to know action on the big
screen fantastic special effects
complete sound immersion and the taste
of popcorn we all love movie theaters
for the special feeling they give
however would you still love them the
same if you found out that the staff
members watched you during your visit
you're about to learn more about this
one and other striking movie theater
secrets so stay tuned now before we
start revealing the secrets take a
moment to subscribe to our channel and
turn on post notifications to keep up
with our updates all righty here we go
number one the biggest part of the
profit isn't earned by ticket sales it
may seem strange but cinemas earn more
money selling popcorn and soda than they
do selling tickets how is this possible
well they have to pay a lot to film
studios in the first two months of
distribution after these two months all
profits belong to the cinema this is why
some movies are still playing a half a
year after the premiere so how does all
this work well let's suppose you bought
a twelve dollar ticket to see the New
Avengers many people think all this
money you paid goes to the movie theater
or maybe is split 50-50 with the studios
in fact in the first two weeks the
theater has to pay 75 to 80 percent of
the money they get from the spectators
to the studios
so the theater gets to keep two dollars
and forty cents to three dollars off
your $12 ticket in case you prefer to
watch the new movies the opening night
or so it can even be worse for some
movies like it was with Star Wars
Episode two who attack of the clones
when the studio kept 100 percent of the
profits during the first 14 days of
Showtime things get better money-wise
during the second and third weeks of
release when theaters get to keep 45 to
55 percent of box-office intake and the
numbers rise to 80 percent after the
first month
at that point most movie fans will have
seen the new stuff they've been so
waiting for even if they get to keep
this little of what they make movie
theaters still have to pay their staff
and maintenance costs so how do they
actually make at least some money
the answer is concessions movie fans pay
five bucks for popcorn actually worth
about fifteen cents and four dollars for
coke actually worth about eight cents
now that you know their struggle you
might be able to forgive movie theaters
this markup number two there's a lot of
privacy no way there's no privacy in a
movie theater oh that's supposed to be
piracy never mind
ie there's a lot of piracy piracy is bad
but many people go to movie theaters on
a premiere day just to record a new
movie watch free and HD remains a
popular Google search line when it comes
to new movies and even though cam copies
are normally far from HD they can still
find their audience cinema employees try
to prevent this and turn violators out
in the USA the Motion Picture
Association of America encourages this
approach the cinema staff members who
managed to prevent a movie theft get a
$500 prize it's a nice addition to their
salary number three a younger audience
can watch adult rated movies really yep
many cinemas try to prevent younger
audiences from watching r-rated movies
but it still happens regularly the trick
to sneaking inside when you're underage
is to buy a ticket when two movie starts
simultaneously and one of them is not
r-rated cinema staff doesn't always
check where you're going after you pass
the ticket window another way to get
that desired r-rated movie pass is to
ask someone older in line to buy the
tickets for you boy the secrets we share
hmm number 4 viewers cry weep and run
out of the hallways what was your
strongest and strangest emotional
reaction to a movie
perhaps you were in tears watching
Titanic or hachi a dog's tail because
you felt touched at certain moments it
like if one of those movies or both did
make you cry me it was the first five
minutes of up from Pixar it is good old
theory or maybe you've quickly turned
your face away from the screen because
you saw something repulsive or scary
woohoo in cinemas many people can't
always keep their feelings to themselves
and that's normal for example a movie
about cannibals called raw appeared to
be too hard to watch for a couple of
visitors at the Toronto International
Film Festival in 2016 the people fainted
and one of them hit his head badly
during the fall fortunately for both of
them it was nothing serious but they had
to be taken to a nearby hospital for a
health check cinema staff can tell many
stories of this kind they always have a
first-aid kit handy number five creative
ways to sneak in food you may not like
popcorn or the other snacks that they
sell at cinemas or find them too
expensive but it's strictly prohibited
to bring your own food into a cinema
however many people try to violate this
rule during the career of any cinema
employee they see this rule being broken
a lot sometimes security cameras catch
these fun moments one couple stuffed a
truckload of food into an infant's car
seat and went to watch a movie a girl
put some pasta into ziplock bags and
brought them into the cinema with her
number six many people avoid 3d films
the Golden Age of 3d is coming to an end
but not just because the tickets for
these films cost more and the glasses
are often scratched there's one more
reason to choose to do ver 3d when you
put the glasses on your eyes are telling
your brain that you're moving there's an
illusion of being inside a movie and it
drives your visual analyzer crazy your
middle ear that is responsible for
stability tells your brain that you are
not moving because you actually are
sitting still so the
causes physical discomfort that many of
us feel when watching movies in 3d
finally 20% of the population including
Johnny Depp himself simply can't
perceive those three dimensions Harvard
Medical School neural biology professor
dr. Margaret s Livingston explains it
could be due to stereo blindness when
eyes can't see in 3d because of the way
that they are aligned number seven if
there's something wrong with a picture
the projection booth worker won't help
even though a movie projector has to be
programmed during the day there's nobody
sitting in the booth when you watch a
movie digital devices can do everything
on their own and there are more
automatic processes at a cinema than
there were during the previous century
keep it in mind in case there are some
problems with a projector the image is
blurred not centered etc you'll have to
stand up and go notify a staff member in
the lobby
it's useless to yell at the projection
booth guy because there's no one there
number 8 cinema halls are full of
garbage on weekend nights a short break
between two movies is not enough time
for a cinema staff to thoroughly clean
up a theater this is why floors remain
sticky and you may find chewing gum
under your seat mmm boy now if you love
cleanliness that much try to visit the
cinema in the morning and avoid going
there on Friday and Saturday nights when
a lot of other people go out to the
movies and it's always a good idea to
start with yourself and people around
you
we all have clumsy moments when we spill
drinks or drop popcorn by accident
however when you see kids or even adults
nearby starting popcorn wars or sticking
chewing gum under the seats and leaving
tons of rubbish behind it's definitely
not okay and you should tell your kids
that's not a model to follow
number nine people often fight at movies
a conflict can pop up anywhere including
a movie theater it seems like there's
nothing to argue about and nobody would
actually use force to defend a movie
they love
however someone who loves to fight will
always find a reason to do so it could
be that someone took someone else's
parking place they talked on the phone
during the movie or someone is chomping
too loudly number 10 you are being
watched
who in every movie theater there are
cameras pointed at the seats it's not
only a security measure but it helps to
prevent fights or movie theft
thanks to security cameras movie theater
staff can spot and kick out couples that
go too far on their love seats keep this
in mind if you decide to watch a movie
from the back row and be ready to have a
little extra attention so do you know of
any other movie theater secrets that are
worth sharing tell us in the comments
below and don't forget to click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life